hi i'm jonathan with the rookie Kadim e
today today I'd like to share with you
some concepts to help you ski bumps more
effectively make you feel more
comfortable and we'll make the bumps
feel a little less bumpy about 90% of
the terrain on most mountains is off the
beaten path or off the groomed trail and
a lot of that terrain is bumpy or
variable by developing strong skills
particularly skills of a strong core and
the ability to stay centered on the ski
we'll be able to explore more of the
mountain about ten times the amount of
the mountain that we could if we didn't
have these skills what we're gonna work
with here is some of it is developing
the ability to keep the core strong and
moving the feet back and forth under a
stable upper body to keep us centered
if we know we're gonna be hitting bumpy
terrain and we know when we hit that
bumpy terrain that has a tendency to
throw us around on our skis or move us
from the front to the back of the skis
in an uncomfortable manner we need to
take some preventative measures to make
sure that we have the ability to stay in
the center of the ski the first thing
we're gonna do is lower our stance a
little bit in the ankle the knee and the
hip I'm gonna flex slightly trying to
feel my whole foot
I feel the ball of my foot and the heel
of my foot even or I'm feel like I'm
standing on the arch of my foot with a
little contact the shins of the boots
from here I'm going to engage my core
I'm gonna engage my core by sucking my
bellybutton back and feeling the muscles
tensed up through the ribcage
from this position of being slightly
flexed with a strong core it's very easy
to move myself along the length of the
skis which is important to be able to do
is when I hit something I'm gonna be
thrown forward or back and I'm need to
get back to the center neutral athletic
stance that we just explored there are
two main ways to move ourselves along
the length of the skis I can take my
body and move it fore and aft along the
ski or I can take the skis and I can
move them for a nap underneath me
underneath a stable core when we're
skiing on groomed snow in bigger turns
only have lots of time we tend to move
for a nap by sending the body to the
front of the seat and pulling it back to
the center
but invariable terrain when you don't
know what's going to happen to us we
need a little more speed and a faster
reaction time and the way we get that is
by keeping the body stable and moving
the feet underneath we can practice that
statically or standing on flat ground by
standing still and moving the body
fore-and-aft leaving the feet firmly
planted on the ground as demonstrated
here keeping the core strong we can
leave the body in the same place and
send the feet back and forth as
demonstrated here my goal here all
standing still is to keep my body
stationary from the pelvis to the head
not moving and moving my feet for my
base of support underneath me now let's
put that task into motion let's try
going across this gentle slope here and
watch as I go across I'm gonna leave my
body in one place and just shuffle my
feet back and forth I'm gonna try going
slow and I'm gonna try going fast I'm
gonna repeat that a couple times in both
directions
while I'm doing this I'm feeling rocking
from my toe to my heel and my heel to my
toe the entire time I'm trying to remain
in contact with my shin to the front of
the boot that's gonna let me know that I
have access to the ability to turn my
legs and tip my feet so much as I need
to this simulates the feeling what the
bumps are gonna do to me and the thing
is I'm going need to do to recover as I
get now let's take this into the bumps
just like we did on the green terrain
we're going to traverse some bumps but
I'm not gonna need to push my feet back
and forth because as I hit the bump the
bumps gonna put skis are gonna go uphill
and my feet are gonna slow down as they
go back down the bump if my feet are
going to speed up and that's gonna
simulate feet moving back and forth
underneath what I'm going to try to do
is limit the amount they slow down by
pushing them a little forward over the
bump I'm gonna try to limit the amount
they speed up by pulling them back a
little bit as they go over them
now let's put that into some basic terms
we're not gonna worry too much about the
line though where we turn but we're
gonna try to keep centered on our feet
by adapting to the terrain through some
medium-sized turns as we feel our feet
go up the bumps we're gonna let our feet
rock forward a little bit as we come
over the bumps we're gonna pull our feet
back trying to eat a consistent size of
turn the entire time now that we have a
stronger ability to stay centered and
manage the for a challenges that bumps
in variable terrain give us let's try
making this into some shorter turns and
more fall line oriented bumps peoples
without trying to get too much ski
performance we're gonna make some
shortest turns from kind of one turn
four bump keeping the C reasonably
skiddy and taking that undulating motion
of toe to heel and heel to toe just in
one turn each so as I hit the bump and
my feet get pushed forward I'm gonna
start the turn and then as a accelerate
down the bump I'm gonna pull them back
so guys in summary what we've done today
is develop stronger for apt ability to
get us off to the groom so in some basic
bumps and conquering the challenges that
bumps give us within that realm of
fore/aft and getting thrown around we
strengthen the core we lowered the
stance and learn to move our feet under
our center of mass versus our center of
mass over the top of our feet so that we
can manage the terrain you took that
skiing and some shorter turns and bumps
going forward keep practicing that move
it to some steeper terrain and keeping
it skitty and round turns as you get
more advanced go a little faster and
start increasing the range of motion so
that you can stay centered absorbing
larger focus I'm Jonathan Berg with the
rookie ketamine thanks for watching